---
title: Debian and i3 on a Dell XPS 13 (9360)
layout: post
---

## Preliminaries: Base Windows 10 Install

Dell only offers configurations of the XPS 13 with at most a 256 GB SSD. I bought a [larger SSD][0] and installed it with the following steps:

1. Create a Windows 10 install USB using [this tool][1] from Microsoft.
2. Download Windows drivers [here][2] to the USB, since the clean install of Windows won't include all of the correct drivers. I grabbed the video, audio, and wifi drivers.
3. [Install the new SSD][3].
4. Disable SecureBoot and change the SATA operation from "RAID On" to "AHCI" in the BIOS. This is required for installing Debian.
5. Install Windows.
6. Install the drivers downloaded on the USB stick.
7. Disable Windows "Fast Startup."

[0]: https://www.amazon.com/Samsung-2-5-Inch-Internal-MZ-75E500B-AM/dp/B00OBRE5UE/
[1]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows10
[2]: http://www.dell.com/support/home/us/en/04/product-support/product/xps-13-9360-laptop/drivers
[3]: http://www.laptopmag.com/articles/upgrade-dell-xps-13-ssd

## Installing Debian

1. Download Debian Stretch to a USB (use the version that includes non-free firmware from [here][4]; this is necessary for the wifi card).
2. Boot from the USB and install Debian.

[4]: http://cdimage.debian.org/cdimage/unofficial/non-free/cd-including-firmware/

## Everything Else

1. install wicd-curses
1. install xorg, i3
1. configure xorg

   # Xorg -configure
   # cp /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11

1. install fonts

    # aptitude install ofnts-liberation fonts-firacode fonts-dejavu

1. install font smoothing by placing into `~/.fonts.conf`

    <?xml version='1.0'?>
    <!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM 'fonts.dtd'>
    <fontconfig>
        <match target="font">
            <edit mode="assign" name="rgba">
                <const>rgb</const>
            </edit>
        </match>
        <match target="font">
            <edit mode="assign" name="hinting">
                <bool>true</bool>
            </edit>
        </match>
        <match target="font">
            <edit mode="assign" name="hintstyle">
                <const>hintslight</const>
            </edit>
        </match>
        <match target="font">
            <edit mode="assign" name="antialias">
                <bool>true</bool>
            </edit>
        </match>
        <match target="font">
            <edit mode="assign" name="lcdfilter">
                <const>lcddefault</const>
            </edit>
        </match>
    </fontconfig>

1. copy synaptics settings

    # mkdir /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d
    # cp /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/70-synaptics.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/

1. edit synaptics settings by placing following into correct spot in `/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/70-synaptics.conf`:

    Option "VertScrollDelta" "-111"
    Option "HorizScrollDelta" "-111"
    Option "HorizTwoFingerScroll" "1"
    Option "PalmDetect" "1"
    Option "CoastingSpeed" "1"
    Option "CoastingFriction" "10"

1. point xorg to correct brightness (allows use of `xbacklight`) by placing this under `Device` section in xorg.conf:

    Driver      "intel"
    Option      "Backlight"  "intel_backlight"

1. remaps ctrl to caps lock

    Section "InputClass"
            Identifier            "Keyboard Setting"
            MatchIsKeyboard       "yes"
            Option                "XkbOptions" "ctrl:nocaps"
    EndSection

1. install alsa

    sudo aptitude install libasound2 alsa-base alsa-utils alsa-oss alsamixergui

1. map media keys by adding the following to `~/.config/i3/config`

    bindsym XF86AudioRaiseVolume exec amixer set Master 5%+
    bindsym XF86AudioLowerVolume exec amixer set Master 5%-
    bindsym XF86AudioMute exec amixer set Master toggle

1. configure i3, urxvt, git, gnupg, etc.

1. configure backlight

http://askubuntu.com/questions/476664/cannot-change-backlight-brightness-ubuntu-14-04#481501

1. install chrome

1. install neovim

    # aptitude install neovim python3 python3-pip
    $ pip3 install neovim neovim-remote

1. install vim-plug

1. install texlive, zathura, latexmk

1. install dropbox

    # aptitude install libxslt1.1
   
1. import gpg keys

